Task Level (Beginner): Do 5 out of 9
1. Variables
1. Create a variable named pi and store the value 22/7 in it.
Now check the data type of this variable.
2. Create a variable called for and assign it a value 4. See what
happens and find out the reason behind the behavior that you
see.
3. Store the principal amount, rate of interest, and time in
different variables and then calculate the Simple Interest for 3
years. Formula: Simple Interest = P x R x T / 100



2. Numbers
1. Write a function that takes two arguments, 145 and 'o'
, and
uses the `format` function to return a formatted string. Print the
result. Try to identify the representation used.
2. In a village, there is a circular pond with a radius of 84 meters.
Calculate the area of the pond using the formula: Circle Area = π
r^2. (Use the value 3.14 for π) Bonus Question: If there is exactly
1.4 liters of water in a square meter, what is the total amount of
water in the pond? Print the answer without any decimal point in
it. Hint: Circle Area = π r^2 Water in the pond = Pond Area
Water per Square Meter
3. If you cross a 490meterlong street in 7 minutes, calculate your
speed in meters per second. Print the answer without any decimal
point in it. Hint: Speed = Distance / Time



3. List
1. You have a list of superheroes representing the Justice
League. justice_league = ["Superman"
,
"Batman"
,
"Wonder
Woman"
,
"Flash"
,
"Aquaman"
,
"Green Lantern"]
Perform the following tasks:
1. Calculate the number of members in the Justice League.
2. Batman recruited Batgirl and Nightwing as new members.
Add them to your list.
3. Wonder Woman is now the leader of the Justice League.
Move her to the beginning of the list.
4. Aquaman and Flash are having conflicts, and you need to
separate them. Choose either "Green Lantern" or "Superman"
and move them in between Aquaman and Flash.
5. The Justice League faced a crisis, and Superman decided to
assemble a new team. Replace the existing list with the following
new members: "Cyborg"
,
"Shazam"
,
"Hawkgirl"
,
"Martian
Manhunter"
,
"Green Arrow".
6. Sort the Justice League alphabetically. The hero at the 0th
index will become the new leader.
(BONUS: Can you predict who the new leader will be?)
Your task is to write Python code to perform these operations on
the "justice_league" list. Display the list at each step to observe
the changes.




4. If Condition
1. Write a program to determine the BMI Category based on user input.
Ask the user to:
Enter height in meters
Enter weight in kilograms
Calculate BMI using the formula: BMI = weight / (height)2
Use the following categories:
If BMI is 30 or greater, print "Obesity"
If BMI is between 25 and 29, print "Overweight"
If BMI is between 18.5 and 25, print "Normal"
If BMI is less than 18.5, print "Underweight"
Example:
Enter height in meters: 1.75
Enter weight in kilograms: 70
Output: "Normal"
2. Write a program to determine which country a city belongs to. Given
list of cities per country:
Australia = ["Sydney"
,
"Melbourne"
,
"Brisbane"
,
"Perth"]
UAE = ["Dubai"
,
"Abu Dhabi"
,
"Sharjah"
,
"Ajman"]
India = ["Mumbai"
,
"Bangalore"
,
"Chennai"
,
"Delhi"]
Ask the user to enter a city name and print the corresponding country.
Example:
Enter a city name: "Abu Dhabi"
Output: "Abu Dhabi is in UAE"
4. If Condition (Continued...)
3. Write a program to check if two cities belong to the same country.
Ask the user to enter two cities and print whether they belong to the
same country or not.
Example:
Enter the first city: "Mumbai"
Enter the second city: "Chennai"
Output: "Both cities are in India"
Example:
Enter the first city: "Sydney"
Enter the second city: "Dubai"
Output: "They don't belong to the same country"



5. For Loop:
1. Using a for loop, simulate rolling a sixsided die multiple times (at least 20
times).
Count and print the following statistics:
How many times you rolled a 6
How many times you rolled a 1
How many times you rolled two 6s in a row
2. Imagine you are doing a workout routine, and you have to complete 100
jumping jacks.
Write a program that:
Asks you to perform 10 jumping jacks at a time.
After each set, it asks, "Are you tired?"
If you reply "yes" or "y," it should ask if you want to skip the remaining sets.
If you reply "yes" or "y," it should break and print, "You completed a total of
jumping jacks."
For example, if you did only 30 jumping jacks and answered "yes," the program
will break and print, "You completed a total of 30 jumping jacks."
If you reply "no" or "n," it should continue and display how many jumping jacks
are remaining. After that, ask you again, "Are you tired?"
For example, if you answered "no," it should display that 70 jumping jacks are
remaining and ask you again, "Are you tired?"
If you reply "no" or "n," it should continue and display how many jumping jacks
are remaining. After that, ask you again, "Are you tired?"
For example, if you answered "no," it should display that 70 jumping jacks are
remaining and ask you again, "Are you tired?"
If you complete all 100 jumping jacks, it should print, "Congratulations! You
completed the workout," and stop the program



6. Dictionary
1. Create a list of your friends' names. The list should have at least 5 names.
Create a list of tuples. Each tuple should contain a friend's name and the length
of the name.
For example, if someone’s name is Aditya, the tuple would be: ('Aditya', 6)
2.You and your partner are planning a trip, and you want to track expenses.
Create two dictionaries, one for your expenses and one for your partner's
expenses. Each dictionary should contain at least 5 expense categories and their
corresponding amounts.
For example:
Your expenses
your_expenses = {
"Hotel": 1200,
"Food": 800,
"Transportation": 500,
"Attractions": 300,
"Miscellaneous": 200
}
Your partner's expenses
partner_expenses = {
"Hotel": 1000,
"Food": 900,
"Transportation": 600,
"Attractions": 400,
"Miscellaneous": 150
}
Calculate the total expenses for each of you and print the results.
Determine who spent more money overall and print the result.
Find out the expense category where there is a significant difference in spending
between you and your partner.
Print the category and the difference.




7.File handiling:
1. student_marks.csv contains the marks and other details for some students.
Write a python program to:
1. Open the file in read mode
2. Create a dictionary from the given data
3. Add a new field to the dictionary total\_marks and store the total marks of
the students.
4. Add a new field to the dictionary Average and store the average marks of the
students.
5. Create a new file and write this information to the new file
(https://www.kaggle.com/arunkumar413/studentmarks)
2. Create a new CSV file with the newly created total marks and average marks.



8. Classes and Objects:
1.Avengers is a Marvel’s American Superheroes team, Now you want to
showcase your programming skills by representing the Avengers team using
classes. Create a class called Avenger and create these six superheroes using this
class.
2. super_heroes = ["Captain America", "Iron Man", "Black Widow", "Hulk",
"Thor", "Hawkeye"]
3. Your Avenger class should have these properties:
1. Name
2. Age
3. Gender
4. Super Power
5. Weapon
4. Captain America has Super strength, Iron Man has Technology, Black Widow
is superhuman, Hulk has Unlimited Strength, Thor has super Energy and
Hawkeye has fighting skills as superpowers.
5. Weapons: Shield, Armor, Batons, No Weapon for hulk, Mjölnir, Bow, and
Arrows
6. Create methods to get the information about each superhero
7. Create a method is_leader() which will tell if the superhero is a leader or not.



9. Inheritence
1. Create inheritance using MobilePhone as base class and Apple &
Samsung as child class
1. The base class should have properties:
1. ScreenType = Touch Screen
2. NetworkType = 4G/5G
3. DualSim = True or False
4. FrontCamera = (5MP/8MP/12MP/16MP)
5. rearCamera = (8MP/12MP/16MP/32MP/48MP)
6. RAM = (2GB/3GB/4GB)
7. Storage = (16GB/32GB/64GB)
2. Create basic mobile phone functionalities in the classes like:
make_call, recieve_call, take_a_picture, etc.
3. Use super() constructor for calling parent class’s constructor
4. Make some objects of Apple class with different properties
5. Make some objects of Samsung class with different propertie
